i hope that the new parliament and the new commission will make use of them .
i also have a question about the distribution of competences .
sixthly : hygiene .
i have always had confidence in this .
i believe we should achieve this in time .
therefore , once again , we want to roundly condemn the taliban regime .
the tampere summit was about combating crime .
thank you for your statement , commissioner .
i have already appeared before the french senate .
are we talking about the nature of the works required to provide water services ?
mr president , human rights are universal , indivisible , interrelated and interwoven .
i think that setting dates is very important to our also in actual fact attaining the objectives .
10 . considerably limits the present derogations for cement kilns .
the union is , and should remain , a union of states .
i think we should give mr laschets report our full backing and vote unanimously in favour of it .
not that this was ever disputed for the european central bank .
no statistical data exists .
mr president , smoking is bad for the health .
clearly there is pressure on our agenda today .
it was a pity that the lisbon conclusions did not call for a timetable .
at present , there is room for considerable improvement with regard to both of these aspects .
it is just that i am trying not to indulge in demagoguery .
just a few more words about export issues .
so today i will just be bringing you up to date on the main issues under discussion .
i think i can say that we met these conditions .
in a modern democracy , a strong state must be balanced by a strong civil society .
how much offal has accumulated for destruction and how is it being stored ?
i applaud the rapporteur for introducing a time limit for the council decision .
i understand mr von boetticher 's problem and even agree with his comment about the difficulties .
let me now turn to the question raised about proposals for implementing measures .
the decision was made to move gradually to the coverage of all serious crime .
if not , when will it be in operation ?
i believe we must show respect for the decision taken in the irish referendum .
this was true prior to 11 september .
i would therefore like to thank the commission , which i see is still represented here .
that must be the basic principle .
you have not said what you think about more europe .
there are many other conditions we could perhaps apply .
anyone at all can come and say whatever they like .
so i am looking for major and clear assurances of intent in that area .
i have to say that i have received no representations from allergy sufferers on this point .
we have received encouraging signals from the field .
the commission proposal is barking up the wrong tree here .
in my answer , i gave an example of events in actual fact taking the opposite course .
there are no figures for countries like portugal , ireland and greece , which want a derogation .
there is even less information available regarding employers organisations .
or is the focus in respect of these inherently sound intentions on the social directives ?
however , employment legislation and the world have moved on since 1911 .
one issue that separates us is the civil war in chechnya .
i therefore appeal to you to decisively reject amendment no 147 .
these lorries sometimes hog the carriageway for several kilometres and cause many accidents and traffic-jams .
it was an animated , very convivial game .
i wish you every success .
resumption of the session
please rise , then , for this minute 's silence .
( the house rose and observed a minute 's silence )
madam president , on a point of order .
if the house agrees , i shall do as mr evans has suggested .
madam president , on a point of order .
i would like your advice about rule 143 concerning inadmissibility .
it says that this should be done despite the principle of relative stability .
this is all in accordance with the principles that we have always upheld .
thank you , mr segni , i shall do so gladly .
indeed , it is quite in keeping with the positions this house has always adopted .
it is the case of alexander nikitin .
but , madam president , my personal request has not been met .
i would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a dutch channel as well .
it will , i hope , be examined in a positive light .
why has there been no health and safety committee meeting since 1998 ?
why are there no fire instructions ?
why have the staircases not been improved since my accident ?
why are no-smoking areas not enforced ?
it seems absolutely disgraceful that we pass legislation and do not adhere to it ourselves .
i would ask that they reconsider , since this is not the case .
mr berenguer fuster , we shall check all this .
i admit that , at present , the matter seems to be somewhat confused .
we shall therefore look into it properly to ensure that everything is as it should be .
it is irresponsible of eu member states to refuse to renew the embargo .
as people have said , the situation there is extremely volatile .
there is , in fact , a risk of a military coup in the future .
we do not know what is happening .
so why should eu arms producers profit at the expense of innocent people ?
agenda
no amendments have been proposed relating to monday and tuesday .
relating to wednesday :
then we shall follow the usual procedure , hearing one speaker in favour and one against .
according to its president , it is in a position to do so .
( applause from the pse group )
we therefore respect whatever parliament may decide .
( parliament rejected the request ) president .
the ppe-de group is requesting that this item be taken off the agenda .
is there a member who wishes to speak on behalf of this group to propose this ?
madam president , i can hear a ripple of laughter from the socialists .
decisions have also been adopted against a tax of this kind .
that is why my group moves that this item be taken off the agenda .
thank you , mr poettering .
we shall now hear mr wurtz speaking against this request .

it is not a lot to ask .
madam president , i would like to thank mr poettering for advertising this debate .
thank you very much .
my vote was " in favour " .
madam president , the presidency has already declared the result of the vote .
there is no room for amendments .
that did not happen .
this is an important matter .
you did not call me either .
even so , i think the positions are quite clear and they shall be entered in the minutes .
this seems to me to be a workable solution .
of course , the minutes for tomorrow 's sitting will take into account any additional explanations .
mr cox , mr h ä nsch , would this be acceptable to you ?
safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods
all of this is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore to be greatly welcomed .
our amendments from the first reading have , i believe , been taken into account very satisfactorily .
i would urge you to endorse this .
in fact , all hell broke loose in some municipalities in my province .
all the same , we must not content ourselves with enacting european law to ensure greater safety .
i congratulate him on his excellent report .
when it comes to safety my group will always support any initiatives to improve transport safety .
we still have a lot of work to do in this area as recent events have proved .
madam president , i would like to make a few comments .
this is a pity , in a sense .
in short , the issue is an important one .
these smaller companies either dispose of their cargo or mix it with other cargo , which causes problems .
the work is done. all that remains is the business of enforcement .
i would like to mention one final point .
this gives them a competitive edge for the interim period .
those having to deal with these risks should therefore meet stringent requirements .
this , however , does not seem feasible .
i should like to make just a few comments .
my second point has already been mentioned : it concerns the minimum standards .
finally , i would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport .
but i would like to say that safety is a priority objective for the commission .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
transport of dangerous goods by road
in particular , annexes can not be adapted to take account of technical and industrial developments .
i regret this since we are having to take action because others have not done their job .
the commission decides whether the member states may impose certain rules of their own .
in addition , the need for greater transparency has been pointed out .
this is in the special interest of northern european regions .
mr president , colleagues , a happy new year and millennium to you all .
there is support for the eu in lapland also , so let us remember them .
this would be necessary to keep safety standards at the level they were in northern regions previously .
i hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow 's vote .
i thought that it was quite superb .
this directive is a contribution to this .
what we are doing today is essentially a nuisance .
most of the proposed amendments are of a purely technical nature .
this makes it necessary to have proper rules governing transport of this kind .
in area after area , we are now obtaining common minimum regulations for the member states .
this is also important where the prerequisites for the internal market are concerned .
in many ways , the prerequisites differ from one member state to another .
it is good that , in establishing the present regulations , we can also be flexible .
i hope that the commission is able to accept the present amendment .
we therefore accept the four amendments which have been proposed .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
structural funds - cohesion fund coordination
we have seen poverty growing in wales ; and growing still further since 1997 .
we have seen the gap between rich and poor widen .
it is sadly only a recognition of the very great difficulties that wales faces .
we look to the commission to deal with points in relation to additionality .
we look to the commission also to ensure that there is matched funding for projects .
too much of what takes place within this parliament is not transparent .
this is one area in which i believe the commission can be a very great friend to wales .
poverty and wealth used to depend more on means of livelihood .
in the past , this parliament has viewed the social economy as an important potential provider of employment .
the consequences do not inspire hope .
agriculture only provides 5.5 % of employment in the union .
i think that this work has been carried out extremely well .
small and medium-sized businesses , above all , need to take part in the distribution of these funds .
my group has made extensive amendments to both reports up for debate today .
i want to focus our minds on the essential role of the guidelines .
it is important to identify the skills and potential of our regions in the hi-tech sector .
they should not be about creating additional layers of bureaucracy and red tape .
we are badly behind now in this matter .
this report is very good and our group supports it .
we feel that the funds are a necessary but insufficient condition for achieving economic and social cohesion .
we might be mistaken in using the gross domestic product per inhabitant as the sole indicator .
some speakers have already mentioned unemployment and the fall in population .
i do not think , however , that this report has come too late .
this is what we are today asking the commissioner for .
this latter point is of particular importance .
we do not want to build a europe of cities alone .
the key now is to consolidate and make permanent the progress made to date .
i am raising the issue just to reiterate parliament 's position .
personally , i at least am totally in favour of the guidelines .
mr president , i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work .
there are , therefore , two points to which i would like to draw the commission 's attention .
this is something about which european small and medium-sized businesses , in particular , tend to complain .
i would like to explain our thinking here .
i urge the house to support these changes .
regional disparities are becoming much more marked within the member states .
we still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the union 's fundamental objectives .
nonetheless , their true purpose is to give direction and to set priorities .
they are growing , but only in terms of gdp .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
social and economic situation and development of the regions of the union
the european commission 's sixth report presents very valuable conclusions .
i shall summarise two of those highlighted by the rapporteur , one positive and one negative .
it is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation .
this , commissioner , is the first commandment for the coming period .
the report shows that growth has been uneven , despite all our efforts .
very rapid growth is continuing in central europe .
the member states must also bear in mind their responsibility .
this has chipped away at the results that regional policy has produced .
for example , uncontrolled migration has not been given sufficient consideration .
our group is in favour of adopting this report .
mr president , my compliments to the rapporteur for his in-depth report .
some reservation about the effectiveness of community aid is therefore called for .
surely this must be the ultimate goal .
finally , i would like to draw attention to the position of the central and eastern european countries .
what is the result ?
this is very costly and it also causes very great social problems .
we must give them this opportunity .
this is a moral obligation the eu and all of us have .
the solution , as i see it , lies in clearly encouraging entrepreneurship .
what is a fair society ?
so much for the quality .
mr fruteau stated just now that the fruits of growth were distributed inequitably .
you will tell me that situations of growth or shortage do not affect everyone alike .
i agree with your analysis .
i should like to mention a few specific points .
mr berend , you expressed a wish that zoning should be implemented quickly .
well , we are coming to an end of the zoning phase .
this is my first point regarding the policy .
thank you very much , commissioner .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
( the sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m. )
adoption of the minutes of the previous sitting
the minutes of yesterday 's sitting have been distributed .
are there any comments ?
i refer to item 11 on the order of business .
there is one basic lesson i would like us to learn from this .
that is something for which i have a deep appreciation .
it should not be dramatised into something more than that .
thank you very much , mr cox .
i understand what you are saying. we have taken note of this .
however , it was withdrawn from the committee on budgets last night without being discussed or voted on .
it therefore needs to be withdrawn from today 's agenda .
mr wynn , that makes sense .
the report is hereby withdrawn from the agenda .
this needs to be looked into because it is clearly an indication that something is seriously wrong .
mrs ahern , we have taken note of this .
we will also pass this on to our services , however .
thank you very much .
( the minutes were approved )
reform of european competition policy
the next item is the joint debate on the following reports :
allow me to make two fundamental comments at this juncture .
it should continue along this path .
here too we should continue along the path we have chosen , strengthening and intensifying it .
this will be a good test as to whether there is reasonable cooperation between the two institutions .
competition is an instrument and does not always produce ideal solutions .
but optimum efficiency does not necessarily come about of its own accord .
competition yes , restrictions in state aid where necessary and where possible .
this being the case , let me now come to the proposals made in the report .
the commission can only collate and analyse the data provided by the member states .
seven amendments have been retabled for this plenary sitting .
the ecsc treaty is due to expire shortly .
according to this article , state aid is irreconcilable with the common market , in principle .
exemptions are only permitted in precisely defined cases .
under article 88 , the commission is obliged to supervise state aid .
the rules pertaining to the steel industry were drawn up on 18 december 1996 .
in addition , there is a special provision of up to eur 50 million for greece .
there must be no watering-down of the existing principles underlying the steel aid code .
no one wants an unimpeded subsidy competition in europe .
this is the only way to enforce the strict ban on all aid not covered by the code .
a council regulation that is directly applicable law must also be observed by the regional governments .
all this is to the good of the consumer .
dropping the obligation to notify will mean less red tape and administration costs , at any rate .
the second point relates to the retrodisplacement of law enforcement .
but we need there to be more transparency in the competition policy .
one is subsidiarity .
competition between the regions will certainly strengthen rather than weaken the european union .
this own initiative must not be destroyed by european intervention .
i believe there is also a need to raise the de minimis regulation .
thank you very much , mr radwan .
a slim right-wing majority succeeded in removing any reference to market failures .
the market favours the short term and immediate profits .
in order to function , the market needs rules .
we european socialists are in favour of a market economy with a social purpose .
the commission must track down the illegal aid and the aid which actually hinders the internal market .
it would be a serious mistake to eliminate all public aid .
human labour , on the other hand , is considered to be a simple factor in the equation .
we socialists reject the liberals ' na ï ve optimism on this point .
we want a true culture of competition in europe .
another issue is that of what we are to do when state aid is declared unlawful .
how do we ensure that unlawful state aid is paid back ?
this is the way forward if we are to ensure uniform conditions of competition .
it was this which inspired us to propose the same thing with regard to state aid .
mr president , commissioner , there are just two questions which must be answered .
the von wogau report proposes referring supervision of the legitimacy of individual cases to national level .
mr president , once again we are debating the european union 's competition policy .
should we not be discussing this issue ?
we need a competition policy which can and will introduce controls on the activities of these private-sector monopolies .
when will we debate that ?
workers are facing a massive attack on their employment and social rights .
the competition policy has , as far as these resources permitted , contributed to this event .
what is being done may well be very important , but it is still not sufficient .
the rapporteur 's amendments nos 6 and 7 , therefore , deserve our support .
vulnerable people find themselves hardest hit .
if this comes to nothing , then the government has to step in .
this would be at the expense of legal certainty within industry .
it forms a sound basis for discussion and is to be welcomed in this sense .
i understand where the authors are coming from and i share their views .
firstly , these relate to the coherence of the policy 's application .
it is true , there are some european regulations and interpretative statements on the way .
secondly , i understand the worry of industry regarding legal certainty .
many dossiers are currently being filed with precisely this concern .
this instrument will fall by the wayside in future .
they are still in training , as it were .
for this reason , modernisation was essential .
that modernisation came to be particularly necessary for five reasons .
a reform of this point was therefore also necessary .
the procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in regulation 1762 .
the voices in favour of its amendment were unanimous .
it was therefore necessary to facilitate this approach .
it was therefore necessary to introduce an economic analysis .
the white paper intends to resolve these problems and we therefore support these proposals .
it is also true that we note certain deficiencies which have come to light in the report .
secondly , regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation .
for these reasons , we are going to vote in favour of the report .
frankly , i believe that this modernisation has been satisfactory .
various arguments have been presented in its favour .
this is why i give this report my full support .
the truth is that the single market is not yet complete .
we daily hear the need to promote a wider and deeper europe .
that is the context in which i want to consider the commission 's proposals .
we look to him as the man to root out cartels .
the first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy .
i know that the commission is set against this , but the potential exists .
i remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities .
i remain worried about the whole operation of the judicial process .
mr von wogau said we can look to the european court .
well , we in britain are looking to the european court at the moment .
so , judicially , something needs to be done .
i ask the commission what can be done to speed up implementation in this particular area .
in relation to legal certainty , i endorse the point made by mrs thyssen .
it is important that business has legal certainty .
i mentioned this again to commissioner monti recently .
he said we must not always be carried along by lawyers .
i know there has been an analysis of the implications for the commission of the change .
i would like to hear what commissioner monti has to say about that .
it is therefore with some justification that competition policy is one of the most important policies .
we can be proud of monopolies and mergers supervision .
society is surrendering itself to the economy .
that is precisely what we do not want in the european union .
it is essential that this long overdue step be taken .
it is also important to underline the connection between competition policy and consumer protection .
indeed , it is debatable whether this could be carried through at all without amending the treaty .
mr president , commissioner , competition is exactly what we need .
i say that as an entrepreneur who has a vested interest in this .
ireland clearly is in the lead when national and community regional and social funds are put together. "
i believe that the rapporteur is simply playing with figures .
i find it difficult to understand how he can index regional and social funds into this mathematical equation .
this was merely an extension of the policy objectives to complete the internal market within europe .
regional disparities must be overcome if the internal market is to succeed and prosper .
no other member state is at such a disadvantage .
but opinion differs as to the solution .
in other words , we are making the transition from the principle of banning to that of misuse .
both i and other meps utterly reject such a drastic change of system .
i do not accept that a practical transposition problem should give rise to changing the law .
the commission is giving up its monopoly on exemptions .
this is unacceptable to my mind .
this is unacceptable in my view .
it would weaken a key element of european policy .
there are enough other options in the present system to safeguard open markets and free competition .
there was no majority for this at the time .
i consider this to be unacceptable .
the commission suggests shorter deadlines .
i agree with this request .
in the interests of equality , either the code must be applied or it must be modified .
we therefore await , and i await , the european commission 's proposals on this matter .
i agree with the rapporteur on two issues .
with global markets , we need global employment laws and global subsidies .
however , it must be " europeanised " taking into account the principle of subsidiarity .
the commission finds this worrying only from the point of view of the conditions of competition .
society gains nothing from these massive transfers of public funds to private business .
with what aim ?
not to save jobs .
all these firms have gone ahead with job cuts and even redundancies .
did these firms need state aid to survive ?
no , car manufacturers have been making colossal profits for years .
in this respect i have observed a significant consensus in all the interventions .
firstly , it is necessary , in drawing up the legislation , to produce clear and complete rules .
the principle of competition must now be universal in its application .
the form the aid takes is important .
forms of state aid that require an effort from the beneficiary are to be supported .
in his report , karl von wogau manages to capture this very well .
but europe is changing .
the economies are growing , we are enlarging to 25-30 member states .
the european commission will become overburdened if it pursues its current policy .
it is therefore necessary to modernise competition policy .
this is not in question .
having said this , i still have concerns about the proposed decentralisation .
in the netherlands , the competition authority is still in its infancy .
uniformity needs to be worked on .
this special court in luxembourg is necessary in order to build up broad expertise .
what is the commissioner 's opinion of this ?
i would like to finish off by making an important point for small and medium-sized businesses .
through cooperation , small , independent firms must be able to stand up to the large chains .
the many ideas which have been expressed here could be put into three broad categories .
i share that concern and i believe that this issue should be addressed .
secondly , we have the issue of companies ' legal certainty .
it is true , commissioner , that the commission is not a machine for manufacturing legal certainty .
we all agree on this .
on this point i will give my opinion on something which mr karas said .
there have only been nine rejections .
but here i would like to call on my experience as a lawyer .
this is therefore an aspect to be considered .
thirdly , we have the problem of the uniform application of community law .
in this respect , the excellent speech by mrs thyssen can not be improved upon .
here improvements should be made .
only in certain countries , germany for example , is there specialised jurisdiction .
perhaps this is a promising avenue to explore , but we must also explore others .
at the end of the day , i honestly do not believe that this fear is justified .
allow me to emphasise that this is communitisation , not renationalisation , of competition law .
this then is the idea of monitoring implementation .
i must say that i find this a very good idea that we will probably take up .
this goes at least some way towards alleviating your concerns , mrs peijs .
we will examine all that material carefully before making a legislative proposal for a new regulation .
there is one point about the impact for firms which is of great importance .
many speakers have underlined this .
the commission is paying particular attention to legal certainty for smes .
we are proposing a system which considerably improves legal certainty for smes .
why ?
is this simply a political gesture ?
no .
the fourth group is legal certainty .
the guarantees which companies must be given are currently under discussion .
i will mention only two , in order to be brief .
the first is greater transparency .
thank you , commissioner monti .
the joint debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
protection under criminal law of the union 's financial interests
the union can only impose sanctions in the field pertaining to administrative law when cases are exposed .
it is for the member states to undertake criminal measures .
for it to enter into force , it must be ratified by all 15 member states .
after five years only four have done so .
the second recommendation relates to criminal proceedings .
the existing monitoring committee can only monitor the independence of the director of the agency .
there is no question of this influencing the administration of justice in the member states .
the court of justice is to monitor the legality of the legislative acts .
the commission , mr barnier , mr vitorino and several member states are equally receptive to the idea .
however , this one would undoubtedly be one of the firm favourites to win such a prize .
the conclusions of the theato report safeguard them perfectly .
mr president , this , as mrs theato said , is a critical report .
it is sometimes exaggerated but there it is .
we need to do something about it .
we need to take this responsibility seriously .
we need to be able to prosecute people who commit fraud against the european union .
the question is : who prosecutes ?
that is where we really get into difficulty .
whose responsibility is it when you are dealing with a body that crosses so many frontiers ?
we need also to be sensitive to the concerns of member states .
the proposal to set up a european public prosecutor service is a very sensitive one .
we are aware that it is a delicate debate .
but there is a definite commitment to change the status quo which is totally unacceptable .
mr president , i would like to start by congratulating mrs theato on her report .
but the member states failed to cooperate .
this is just a political fact about which little can be done at present , i think .
i myself have been involved in the committee of inquiry on transit traffic .
this , i thought , is no longer permissible , certainly not at the moment .
i would like to make one general point on politics .
whatever we may say about the european elections , the low turnout is a fact .
mr president , i too would like to thank the rapporteur .
mrs theato 's report may help to restore confidence in european institutions .
yet , every year we have the same problem .
it is precisely this process that undermines confidence every year .
i hope that the debate will convince a few more people .
moreover , this proposal is liable to set off a chain reaction of totally unforeseen reforms .
so the legal framework , mr president , is already in place .
it is fine , in principle .
it need only be fine-tuned .
mr president , mrs theato is proposing institutional revolution for a twofold reason .
and indeed there is a twofold shift .
the intergovernmental conference 2000 will provide the appropriate forum for discussing this .
mr president , will a european public prosecutor be able to abolish football fraud involving eu funds ?
i do not believe so .
on the other hand , we can go a long way using the existing tools .
in the way it is structured , eurojust should correspond to europol and support investigations into crimes .
it is just such practical cooperation there is a need for .
however , it would be quite a mammoth task to establish such an office .
it is , after all , only the most serious crimes which would have consequences under criminal law .
ninety per cent of cases would be disciplinary matters concerning negligence or incompetence .
instead , there is a need for proper internal control and the ability to sack people more easily .
we should alter the staff regulations and disciplinary procedures and , especially , change our practice .
mr president , we all want to do something about combating european fraud .
but the question is now : is the european union doing anything about it as well ?
the answer to this is that we know very little about this .
the tampere summit was about combating crime .
everyone was supposedly pleased about it but , in reality , we have made little progress .
so a great deal has to be done in this area .
and what exactly should be done ?
so , unification in this small area .
it is , in fact , something very positive. just like europol .
parliament supports this .
the committee of wise men supports this .
i urge the council of ministers and the european commission to do the same .
mr president , i want to concentrate on the issue of corpus juris .
i would very much like to support what mrs morgan said on this issue .
corpus juris is something that was set up without any kind of public debate or public participation .
we need a public debate on this .
we need the member states and the citizens in the member states to be properly informed .
there needs to be much more openness and transparency on this issue than there has been to date .
another major criticism of the text concerns secondary law .
article 280 of the treaty allows the council to pinpoint the appropriate instruments to curb fraud .
we wanted to express our perplexity as regards these points by abstaining in committee .
mr president , i would very much just like to add to two particular points .
the point i want to make relates to mrs theato 's report .
i am referring to recommendations 1 and 2 .
we obviously have difficulties there with regard to the legal basis .
we also face difficulties with regard to offences .
nothing has changed there .
as far as that is concerned , i believe there are judicial uncertainties that need to be overcome .
nevertheless , it raises some very basic questions .
mr president , the eu is now exposed to tough scrutiny .
confidence in the european union has been seriously damaged .
to remedy this , vigorous efforts are required .
we have more confidence in eurojust , where prosecutors from the individual nations cooperate .
the challenge for the commission and for ourselves is , however , to find the right mix .
we therefore welcome the aggressive approach of mr van hulten 's report .
the main idea ought to be that each administration takes responsibility for its own supervision .
this requires staff training , more modern recruitment methods and , above all , openness and public control .
being able to scrutinise the administration effectively is the best protection against irregularities .
yet as things stand , only the first four member states have ratified the agreement concluded in 1995 .
the commission wholeheartedly agrees with the rapporteur that this is an unacceptable situation
i am fully in agreement with the monitoring committee and the rapporteur on this point .
vote
( parliament approved the commission proposal )
heaton-harris ( ppe-de ) .
these are both about voting .
mr president , i was not referring to that particular vote but to votes in general .
i was wondering whether this is the correct procedure .
i know it takes longer , but should we not always have a show of hands first ?
i shall , i assure you , mr heaton-harris , pay particular attention to the show of hands .
i hope to see many hands raised when the time comes to vote .
( parliament approved the commission proposal )
( parliament approved the commission proposal )
procedure without debate :
( parliament approved the legislative resolution )
the commission hereby adopts this amendment and accepts it .
( the president declared the common position approved ( as amended ) )
( parliament adopted the legislative resolution )
( parliament adopted the resolution )
( parliament adopted the resolution )
( parliament adopted the resolution )
( parliament adopted the resolution )
( parliament adopted the resolution )
( parliament adopted the resolution )
explanations of vote- own resources
.
( fr ) the european union is apparently financed through four own resources .
this can be clearly seen in the regulation before us .
there is as yet no federal european tax .
koch report ( a5-0105/1999 )
directive 96/35/ec was a response to this requirement .
the commission proposal seeks to ensure that the training of safety advisers is standardised .
parliament voted in favour of this text .
koch report ( a5-0104/1999 )
the views i shall express today are not far removed from those i had then .
this included a number of interim conditions valid until 1 january 1999 .
the cen has been unable to complete its work in the time allotted .
until then , there is really no point in member states amending their national regulations .
they may also adopt alternative conditions for transportation of a local nature and for ad hoc transportation .
schroedter report ( a5-0108/1999 )
i regard that as a very unsatisfactory state of affairs .
i hope we can revisit this issue at a later time .
.
in order to reduce disparities between regions , of course .
these guidelines represent a step towards the improved effectiveness of community structural aid .
amended again as such by the schroedter report , they are a step in the right direction .
in the meantime , let us support this first step .
although i wholeheartedly support this aim , i would much rather see such aid eliminated altogether .
illegal state aid , by contrast , destroys competitive companies and creates unemployment .
.
.
in general , the current guidelines can not be considered as clear or transparent .
in conclusion , the document is not particularly satisfactory , and in some aspects is disappointing .
berend report ( a5-0107/1999 )
we shall therefore confine ourselves to highlighting a few issues .
.
the poorest regions are gradually making good their underdevelopment .
in 1996 it was 50 % .
progress is particularly marked in portugal and ireland .
this is a generalised tendency , sparing neither the rh ô ne-alpes , nor alsace .
von wogau report ( a5-0069/1999 )
.
it suggests that the community directive on european works councils must be updated and strengthened .
.
this partial renationalisation of competition policy could involve higher costs for member states .
it is a quite different europe which is taking shape in the long term .
is this not , indeed , what is so distressing to some socialist members of the european parliament ?
indeed , this is one advantage of the present system .
rapkay report ( a5-0078/1999 )
this is repulsive most of all in social terms .
excessive in comparison with what iron rule , what criteria of efficiency ?
finally , after seattle , do you really think you can advocate increasing the role of the wto ?
only the legal advisers to multinationals could demonstrate such stubbornness .
jonckheer report ( a5-0087/1999 )
i am happy with the rapporteur 's treatment of state aid and i congratulate him on this .
the european commission must make good these omissions as soon as possible .
langen report ( a5-0073/1999 )
this , indeed , is the purpose of the sixth steel aid code .
finally , we have the problem of the consequences of the expiry of the ecsc treaty .
the aid system must effectively be continued beyond 2002 .
oil slick off the french coast
together with mrs grosset ê te and the ppe-de group , we tabled a motion for a resolution .
i am pleased to see that we have today arrived at a compromise motion .
a disaster of this scale could almost certainly not have occurred along the american coastline , and why ?
you told us that rina was an italian classification register recognised by the commission .
what are the conditions for this recognition ?
what guarantees are there of its reliability ?
you are going to commission a fact-finding mission .
we await the outcome with great interest .
inspections by the maritime authorities and supervision within european ports must also be tightened up .
this obligation is not respected either in france or in many other european countries .
why not ?
what conclusions has the commission already drawn or what conclusions is it going to draw ?
this disaster is both a transport and environmental one and is not confined to one area .
here we are here again in this parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster .
we need the member states to act quickly and decisively .
just as the sea empress , just as the braer did .
it is absolutely certain that all three left us with an ecological disaster .
the time for resolutions has passed .
what is now needed is action .
when will we see a return to cleanliness and the end of this devastating accident ? "
we absolutely have to guarantee our citizens that a disaster of this type will never happen again .
a european inspection body must be established which can monitor the condition of vessels effectively and efficiently .
i can testify to this remarkable work .
once again , there will be no clearly defined party responsible .
in the meantime , it is nature that is taking the rap , as always .
our proposals are particularly concerned with the age of oil tankers .
this is no longer tolerable .
next , we have flags of convenience .
this is no longer tolerable .
finally , there is the lack of transparency .
this is no longer tolerable .
finally we must ensure that all the parties responsible for disasters contribute to repairing the damage caused .
i am thinking specifically of total-fina in the present instance .
quite clearly , we are now paying the price for our lack of concern .
so today we find ourselves in a state of utter confusion .
the question of flags of convenience must be reviewed within the imo .
it is up to the members states and the community to take the necessary initiatives to achieve this .
this omission must be remedied as a matter of urgency .
this must be brought forward .
the terms of the regulations to be enforced must be particularly clear and strict .
i shall mention three issues that our group feels are priorities .
this could be of a maximum of 15 years of age .
thus , the erika was refused access to american waters .
if the european community had done the same , a great disaster would have been avoided .
and now the erika .
whose turn is next ?
and this is the result .
as an elected representative for the loire-atlantique region , unfortunately , i can testify to this .
there is nothing natural about these recurring disasters , they are the result of fate .
they are the result of human thoughtlessness .
what we have here is an ecological disaster .
the erika disaster must be the last in the series .
first of all , we must shed some light on this shipwreck .
we know what actually happened .
this would be a minimum requirement , i believe , on the dawn of the third millennium .
i have also tabled a resolution on this subject on behalf of the edd group .
we urgently require a directive if we are to reduce these risks. the 15 clearly do not suffice .
these guarantee - making no claim to be exhaustive - a minimum of 3 things .
however , we must aim higher in the long-term , let there be no mistake about that .
in other words , we need real cost-effectiveness for our entire energy supply system .
many thanks for this .
the damage suffered , also in ecological terms , can not be expressed in money .
hence also this joint debate involving transport and environmental management members .
could i highlight a few points which have also been touched upon by the commissioner ?
but this is not in place .
mr president , i would welcome some action in this area .
mr president , we have already had this discussion so many times in the past .
so what are we to do now ?
i have no intention of talking about past events ; rather i want to look to the future .
what are we to do now ?
i will tell you a few things we should do .
of course , we need double-hulled vessels .
so what do we need to happen immediately ?
if you do not have a certificate then you are not allowed to operate the vehicle .
this is what we need for ships .
we also need the country whose flag the ship flies to bear liability .
this would be a marvellous exercise in supervision !
environmental standards will be a recurring theme .
the unions will have something to say as will industry .
a long memory will serve us well , ladies and gentlemen .
just you go home and say : " we have not concerned ourselves with standards to date " .
we need to have a long memory when it comes to the demands being made in the ports .
if we succeed in this then perhaps we will be better off in a few years ' time !
mr president , mrs roth-behrendt expressed very many of my own thoughts .
we have now obtained a first-rate enumeration of a variety of measures .
but how do we make use of the sense of crisis to which this ecological disaster has led ?
where is the sense of crisis which generations before us had ?
we must also critically examine the classification societies .
i do not think that we can accept their procedures .
we need independent procedures and procedures involving public control .
within the commission , the one hand does not know what the other hand is doing .
however , we must stick to the facts .
the ship erika has been investigated four times in the course of the last two years .
i can not accept this .
this can only be detected if controls undertaken are more rigorous .
that is the only deterrent we have for preventing other classification companies from following suit .
there are reputable companies too .
it could have sunk anywhere .
by now they are far away .
it is a miracle that they were saved .
things could well continue in the same way .
perhaps they are in lovely villas by lovely beaches , getting a nice tan .
we would like to know their names and their faces .
finally , there must be improvements in the training of crews .
mr president , i welcome the statement from the commissioner .
this has been an environmental disaster as well as a deplorable waste of resources .
they are no substitute for rigorous regular inspection .
i come from a region , galicia , which has suffered similar accidents in the past .
i therefore believe that it is necessary to act in two ways .
on the other hand , prevention is essential .
portugal is a country which has clearly demonstrated its sensitivity to issues relating to the sea .
in addition , i should like to make a number of comments :
that should be the starting point for our efforts .
once we have done that , our reaction to the ecological disaster is fully justified .
commissioner , i believe that it is time to opt for the safest technically possible measures .
it is therefore not sufficient to merely reproduce the legislation in force in other countries .
i believe that we can and must improve the existing legislation in this regard .
we sometimes regulate things which could , by and large , remain subsidiary .
in this area we must respond to public opinion .
i hope that all political groups will support us in our request for a public hearing .
the implications for the environment and for the flora and fauna of the european maritime environment are enormous .
the cause of the disaster must be sought in the weakened structure of the oil tanker .
the international maritime organisation has issued international rules in this connection .
states can carry out port inspections .
it is clear that there is no lack of legislation .
in my opinion , the commissioner is quite right .
where the scheme falters is in the enforcement of existing legislation .
should its implementation not be more strictly monitored ?
the erika was built at a japanese shipyard and is single-hulled .
there are four more sister ships in service at present .
some of them also sail under the maltese flag .
are we waiting for the next accident to happen ?
would sanctions not be appropriate , as the commissioner stated , for the classification society ?
rina is currently the talk of the town .
malta is entering the accession negotiations .
like so many others , i too wonder where the people responsible are .
where are the shipowners and those who order the shipments when these disasters occur ?
this is not the first time we have seen oil slicks , whether intentional or unintentional .
( the president cut the speaker off )
i salute these joint efforts to repair the damage .
this is clearly a problem for all eu coastlines which will require imaginative solutions .
there is currently little financial incentive for this when the insurance market picks up the tab .
ultimately , the polluter must pay .
the victims are waiting outside .
they want answers .
who will provide us with new jobs ?
that is why i welcome mrs palacio 's action plan with open arms .
it is equally important to note that " prevention is better than cure " .
but there is an art to that as well .
we are particularly in the debt of those who undertook the difficult deployment of all their crew .
we are therefore right to demand improved controls , sanctions and preventive measures .
the issue is as topical as it was before .
mrs roth-behrendt said that nothing had ever been done .
that is the reality .
flags of convenience are one problem , but are not the only one .
malta and cyprus have asked to join the community .
we must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end .
we already have legislation .
lastly , i would like to stress the issue of liability .
i will end now. i will not expand further .
we will have the opportunity to do so on other occasions .
thank you very much , commissioner .
we have taken good note of your intentions .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place on thursday at 12.00 p.m .
storms in europe
mr barnier has the floor on behalf of the commission .
i think that you must have done so , because you have not mentioned it .
we should therefore put this situation right immediately .
let me explain .
the towns concerned estimate that it will be spread over 40 years .
it is true that the problem of the forestry sector is an extremely complex one .
we should therefore review our policies in order to take account of this fact .
what can the members of the european parliament do when faced with such a widespread disaster ?
they have earned the confidence of their fellow-citizens .
i would also like to consider the paradoxical situation we have with regard to emergency aid .
i am thinking in particular here of fish and shellfish companies , which have been particularly badly hit .
i can show you a copy if you wish .
these storms were an unprecedented ecological disaster for our forests .
i ask member states to grasp this opportunity. this programme must work at full capacity .
current programmes must be accelerated .
the entire taxation system must be given an environmental perspective in the medium term .
the wind triumphed over electricity pylons , roofs , traffic signs and , ultimately over the forest .
mr president , commissioner , permit me , first of all , to make reference to two facts .
the commission in brussels responded to the victims ' cries for help with a shrugging of shoulders .
" we do not have the wherewithal for that , " they said .
this is wrong ! and no one can comprehend this attitude .
certainly those who fear for their livelihood are at a complete loss .
the citizens of the european union expect solidarity , also from within this community .
i say they have a right to solidarity .
indeed the european parliament must make it its business to uphold this right in hours of need .
it knows the ins and outs of aid provision better than any local organisation or authority .
the european union needs rules governing environmental liability as a matter of urgency .
we must make the perpetrators liable for all manner of damage done to our environment .
it has become clear that mankind continues to be unable to avoid natural disasters .
there have always been natural disasters and there always will be .
of course , there is a need for solidarity here .
of course , i am in favour of providing assistance where we can .
the most important subject for discussion in this context is the climate .
mr president , i think we should firstly express our sorrow for the victims .
this is an irreparable loss .
therefore europe must be clearly committed to the kyoto protocol and make specific proposals .
furthermore , we should utilise an extraordinary budget line , since this is an extraordinarily catastrophic situation .
it is really the loss of life that makes this particular disaster an extraordinary one by european standards .
that is important .
the other thing we should remember is that we did have a budget line in the past .
it was very small .
so there was not much sympathy for this budget line when it was abolished .
i think we should reinstate this budget line .
the same when the floods came in france and the same again now .
these are major disasters , we should have an instrument , we do not have it .
ladies and gentlemen , none of us must forget what has taken place .
what we need to do now is to deal with the fallen timber as swiftly as possible .
that is why it is absolutely essential to deal with the fallen timber before the warmer weather arrives .
for we all know how long it takes a tree to grow .
the calculations are in decades rather than years .
( the president cut the speaker off )
mr president , i extend our deepest sympathy to all of those who were affected by the storms .
sometimes within the community we do not actually have an awareness of what is happening in other countries .
we had very little coverage in ireland of the tanker that sank .
i was asked to highlight the result of the storms in ireland .
i talked with farmers whose ewes were aborting their lambs due to drinking the infected water .
natural habitats were destroyed .
so i ask that ireland be remembered in this particular case .
i thank the commissioner and support him very much in his european protection force .
i would just like to point again to the impact on the forestry industry throughout europe .
food safety
mr president , i thank the commissioner for his statement .
that is very much the right approach .
but there is one word that i have not heard you mention here tonight .
i hope that we can thrash this out .
it is very important that we include liability in that process .
that is the one word i am talking about .
that can not continue .
my questions relate to the positive list for animal feed .
you are unclear about this in your white paper .
what is your schedule , how long will it take you to produce a positive list ?
thank you , commissioner , for your statement .
we look forward to a fruitful dialogue with you on this .
mrs ahern raised the issue of liability .
once that is done , issues such as liability can be addressed .
but i have taken on board your suggestion and i will give it further consideration .
mrs roth-behrendt asked me about establishing a positive list .
rapid alert is there for food but not for feed .
there is a reference to applicant states and that is something that we have in mind .
i also welcome the white paper .
all this will be managed with the help of modern technology in any area of the european union .
i would ask you on what you base your ideas for a location ?
in addition to that , the food safety authority will have a board .
i envisage that the board 's membership will be made up from stakeholders or representatives of stakeholders .
we have not done that yet but it will be done in september .
that would erode the independence of the scientific advice .
mr florenz asks whether parliament will have a say in that .
that is an issue for consideration and discussion .
there may be a number of views on that .
it is an issue for consideration but it has not been ruled out .
mr florenz also raised the question of anonymity .
it must be visible .
it must be known .
consumers in the european union must know of the existence of the food authority .
it is fundamentally essential therefore that the authority is not anonymous .
it must be visible .
i will do everything i can to promote that high profile role for the authority .
mrs lynne asks whether the authority will have sufficient teeth .
there would have to be an interaction at scientific level .
that is an undesirable situation , we do not want that situation in the future .
this situation can be achieved over a period of time .
you can not legislate for consumer confidence .
it is something that is earned over a period of time .
in relation to grants and subsidies : yes , consideration has been given to that issue .
mrs myller then asked me about the location of the authority .
but the fvo is in quite a different situation from the food safety authority .
the food safety authority 's situation is quite different .
it seems to me desirable for an authority of this type to be centrally located .
that is my judgement at the moment .
colleagues , i am in a very difficult position because i can not change the agenda .
as you can see , half-an-hour is not really anything like enough time for such a session .
that concludes the debate .
question time ( commission )
we will examine questions to the commission .
we will dedicate approximately one hour and fifteen minutes to question time .
we will cut back our time a little because the interpreters are working today in continuous session .
mr purvis has the floor for a procedural motion .
that is the agenda and i think that we should stick to the agenda .
i hope that we do not go on into the evening session in any event .
first part
question no 28 by ( h-0781/99 ) :
mr verheugen has the floor on behalf of the commission .
according to our information , the decision on the selection of a bidder has not been taken yet .
thank you for your reply .
i should like to make the following points : turkey is now a candidate country .
this plan is designed to increase its energy potential by 2 % .
so much for the political aspect .
now to the technical aspect .
in cases such as this , where there is uncertainty , simulators are used .
however , we can not used simulators in cases relating to nuclear energy .
i have explained the position of the commission .
you have to accept the fact that there is no acquis communautaire on nuclear safety .
in the case of turkey it is different .
the plant is not yet there .
i have already said that turkey is part of the npt and of the convention on nuclear safety .
i think it is the right of a member of parliament to raise his own concerns and fears .
i do not have these concerns .
question no 29 by ( h-0786/99 ) :
if not , why not ?
mrs wallstr ö m has the floor on behalf of the commission .
thank you , mr bowe , for your question .
as early as last june the commission financed a first study .
none of the subsequent evidence or analysis has overturned that original assessment .
no indications of contamination were found in kosovo during the btf fact-finding mission .
however , this does not exclude the possibility that areas in kosovo are contaminated by depleted uranium .
future actions will take place within the stability pact for south-eastern europe .
how long will you continue to monitor the effects of these weapons ?
thank you , mr bowe , for that question .
that is also mentioned in the report .
i wish i could give guarantees for many things but unfortunately i am not able to .
that is what we rely on when we advise people on what to do .
what we have seen is that war affects the environment in the long term and is dangerous .
i can not answer that question .
of course i can go back and see whether we can find the necessary information .
question no 30 by ( h-0793/99 ) :
many of the refugees had been severely frost-bitten and many had died along the way .
when will the commission appoint a special envoy for tibet ?
mr patten has the floor on behalf of the commission .
the concerns expressed by the european parliament about tibet are widely shared .
we again urged the chinese to begin a dialogue with the dalai lama .
i urge the chinese again to do so .
we will continue to raise tibet with the chinese authorities .
let me make clear to the honourable member what the position is .
as it happens , we deal with the budgetary consequences , the council makes the appointment .
some may think that the budgetary point should be looked at in due course .
i repeat that we have made our position known to the chinese on tibet .
like the honourable member i have read the autobiography of the dalai lama .
the commission , like others , has urged dialogue .
the dalai lama has made it clear that peaceful dialogue is what he wishes .
i wish that the chinese authorities had responded consistently and positively to that overture from the dalai lama .
question no 31 by ( h-0795/99 ) :
are these reports accurate ?
mr patten has the floor on behalf of the commission .
the commission will then adopt the code at second reading .
the newspaper reports were misleading .
i do not think there is any difference between us and the ombudsman .
it is extremely important and i recognise the concern of the honourable member .
i want to thank the commission for what i perceive as a very positive answer .
is it true that the contents of all parts of the proposal will be approved ?
the only substantial question that has arisen is the legislative basis .
as the author is not present , question no 32 lapses .
i apologise to mr vitorino for this parliamentary discourtesy. i am sorry .
according to the rules of procedure , you are not required to reply .
i wish you a good evening .
second part
questions to mr nielson , who is replaced by mr patten
mr nielson can not be present today since he is in south africa .
question no 33 by ( h-0829/99 ) :
to achieve that , the council 's guidelines must be implemented in their entirety .
is the commission prepared to take such measures ?
the training then would be automatically performed without being compulsory .
it is not to be brought in as a " sort of optional add-on " .
in addition , measures must be taken to combat differences on the grounds of gender .
it would appear that we are in agreement about this .
only one manager has participated in gender training , and for half a day .
that is naturally unacceptable .
that goes for everybody at whatever level of seniority .
so i sympathise very much with what the honourable member has said .
the major part of european union aid has been provided under the tacis programme .
these programmes have benefited kyrgyzstan and to a more limited extent , tajikistan .
over the same period , kyrgyzstan received eur 17 million .
that is why it is imperative to stabilise the two major states of turkmenistan and uzbekistan in particular .
i am very anxious that we should strengthen our relationship with them .
i have heard the honourable member talk in the past about the caucasus as well .
we are contributing to programmes in the region which have some ecological impact .
there is an ecological aspect which we should continue to give priority to .
this is not the usual state of affairs .
and furthermore the commissioner has not quoted from his bibliography this time .
thank you very much , mr patten , for your interventions today .
question no 35 by ( h-0778/99 ) :
thank you , commissioner for your reply .
you tell me that you , as the commission , have made recommendations .
i understand and welcome that and i hope that the recommendations will be adhered to .
however , my question for a very long time has been this : what happened with previous policies ?
did anyone find work ? how many people found work ?
if you can not tell us for this year , then last year and the year before .
what has been done about training ?
do we have any figures ?
the action which the commission can take relates to the specific guidelines .
question no 36 by ( h-0782/99 ) :
some workers have complained to the european commission because they do not have the right to retire .
so i should be grateful if the commissioner could enlarge upon this question .
i think that the answer is brief and clear .
of course it is as you say .
there will be no problem with danish nationals within denmark , that is not where the problem lies .
the problem is with danish nationals or other nationals residing outside denmark .
question no 37 by ( h-0791/99 ) :
question no 38 by ( h-0805/99 ) :
which commissioners are members of this group ?
how many meetings of the group have been held to date ?
what concrete measures have been discussed ?
this question covers several individual matters .
the meetings of the working group are open and the first meeting was held on 11 january 2000 .
mrs avil é s-perea , that was an exhortation rather than a question .
but if the commissioner wishes to offer doctrine or good intentions .. .
question no 39 by ( h-0807/99 ) :
what criteria will the commission use to approve or reject the member states ' programmes ?
the equal initiative is not restricted to certain groups of people .
its purpose is to combat discrimination in the workplace .
this is an important aspect of this initiative .
it has been submitted to parliament and we expect parliament 's opinion next month .
the last question concerns the amount granted .
the equal initiative has a specific mission .
question no 40 by ( h-0808/99 ) :
these exceptions relate to professions which must be exercised by persons with a genuine professional qualification .
allow me to give you a specific example to illustrate this .
that is the sort of exemption we are talking about .
this is a perverse interpretation of ending discrimination .
here we have from the commission a reinforcement of a hierarchy of oppression .
in other words , it is positive discrimination .
that is the only form of exemption which is acceptable .
question no 41 by ( h-0813/99 ) :
i am very familiar with the programmes which you refer to .
i can assure you that we are not reaching the areas where there is most need .
i would therefore ask you to study the possibility of applying microcredit policies .
the commissioner accepts and takes good note of mrs izquierdo rojo 's intervention .
question no 42 by ( h-0817/99 ) :
these discussions have already started , but we will need to take account of the results in lisbon .
these results will be most important in shaping the commission 's social programme .
since the author is not present , question no 43 lapses .
question no 44 by ( h-0819/99 ) :
i would thank the commissioner for her answer .
i am grateful for the fact that the commission has adopted an action plan .
it has not yet been passed by the council ; it is at the consultation stage .
i think that a strategic decision of this sort can be taken at european level .
question no 45 by ( h-0006/00 ) :
if not , will it explain how the directive is to be complied with in this area ?
we are waiting to see what the next move will be .
as far as your question is concerned , this problem does not only apply to denmark .
it is not only denmark which has matters pending .
and this is the direction in which we expect the danish and the other nine governments to move .
thank you very much , commissioner , for your dedication .
you have fulfilled your objective for today , which is to answer all the questions .
we congratulate you .
that concludes question time .
1997 discharge
we asked for a whistle-blower 's regulation , and this is now in place .
parliament wanted financial inspection and audit functions to be separated .
this has now been done .
parliament requires a code of conduct for commissioners and cabinets .
this is in place too .
parliament asked the commission to waive its excessive privileges .
it did this as well .
fundamental changes will also be considered for the technical assistance offices .
we want more than that , however .
the commission should now produce an ambitious and far-reaching reform programme .
we now demand from the european commission clear pledges concerning the following points .
firstly , parliament must have complete access to all commission documents .
if the current draft is correct , then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today .
neither can we tolerate a situation in which a public body holds the copyright to public documents .
i would quote gaza as an example .
mr president , since 1996 , the discharge has acquired a heavy , political significance .
this is why we will most probably grant the discharge tomorrow .
however , we are not surrendering this weapon without placing a time bomb in its place .
finally , this discharge report is naturally addressed to the commission .
we can not have a decisive and fair europe unless it is also open and democratic .
all institutions must now join forces in order to work together towards building this type of europe .
they were not unique to 1997 and two strands seem to run through them .
that can not excuse everything that we came across .
citizens of europe expect the european institutions to be properly managed and they are right to do so .
from what i have seen of the reform process , it looks good .
but we need that reform process .
it is an excellent report and we should all congratulate her on it .
it groups them together and that is very important .
there are two issues i would like to draw your attention to .
one is nuclear safety in eastern europe. we have to get this right .
the committee of independent experts said the commission was not managing this properly .
we have to remedy that .
the second point is about scrutiny mechanisms .
we need from the commission material we can use to help us scrutinise spending .
the socialist group will be voting to grant discharge .
i am sure you will be relieved to hear that as well .
it is clear that a radical overhaul of the commission is long overdue .
we need to make it much easier to prosecute officials who are guilty of fraud and corruption .
we want to see that follow-through to a much greater extent in future .
the other issue is access to confidential documents .
we have put down an amendment to that effect .
the situation there is totally unacceptable .
i would like to congratulate lousewies van der laan .
mr president , commissioner , if we are honest , we find ourselves in a somewhat unusual situation .
i would like to raise the problems which are still piled up high on our desks .
it is about a commission which is no more .
there is now a new commission .
the problems remain and this gives rise to doubts .
mr kinnock will present his proposal next month .
it is clearly a dilemma with which the rapporteur has also struggled .
this dilemma stretches beyond the areas which i have already listed .
take , for example , the pledges made by the commission .
they look good in themselves .
i have read a few documents written by mr kinnock and we have every confidence in them .
the previous speaker already said something about this .
this is an illustration of empty pledges not necessarily leading to good results .
this also applies to whistle-blowers .
we have still not had a response to crucial questions of this type .
clear progress must be visible .
in that year , we voted against granting discharge .
as a result , we shall vote against granting discharge for 1997 , too .
it is both good and necessary that reforms have been promised .
there is no reason why , against this background , we should agree to grant discharge .
that is just the way things are , however .
this question ought to have been asked when the new commission was appointed .
we will be in a position to judge just as soon as the commission presents its reform programme .
in response to this the commission has entered into various commitments and has certainly adopted many reform measures .
it is true that implementation of the budget for 1997 fell within the old commission 's remit .
i am referring here especially to the earlier scandals involving echo .
from the outside , it looks as if the commission has something to hide .
my investigations also unfortunately suggest that this could be the case .
it was this practice which led to the commission 's downfall .
otherwise , we can not carry out our work .
thank you , commissioner schreyer .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
response to second report of committee of independent experts
the new commission has already taken important steps to move away from the way it used to function .
a code of conduct for commissioners and their private offices has been adopted .
new rules have been drawn up and implemented governing the appointment of senior officials .
the number of departments has been reduced .
in order to achieve this , action is required in four areas .
first , financial management and control within the commission must be improved .
one of the main problems is the lack of a functioning system of financial control .
the commission 's dgs must be made fully responsible for their own expenditure , including financial control .
a new independent audit system service must be set up .
it is clear that the transition to such a new system will take time .
changes to the financial regulation will be required and parliament must have its say on those changes .
urgent change is required today .
third , standards in european public life must be upheld .
a number of codes have since been introduced .
they must be assessed by parliament and should be made legally binding .
whistle-blowers who act in good faith must be protected .
they must be implemented without delay .
crucially , reforms must not be limited to the commission .
finally , the commission 's human resource policy must be modernised .
it is clearly no longer suited to the requirements of a modern , multinational organisation .
a career with the european institutions must become more attractive .
too many young , new officials are leaving their jobs after just a few years .
the promotions procedure must be made fairer and more transparent .
last but not least the pay and benefits package must be reviewed .
it must become more flexible and more responsible to labour market conditions .
commissioner kinnock will , tomorrow , present his communication on reform .
this communication must contain a clear timetable .
enlargement of the union is just a few years away .
there is a very simple way to deal with those stories .
let us get rid of mismanagement and nepotism .
our greatest concern in the epp is to ensure that public confidence in the european commission is restored .
this was , after all , one of the causes of the downfall of the last commission .
have the lessons not been learnt ?
we believe the vast number of recommendations of the wise men 's report should be implemented .
commissioner , you will be aware from your presence in the last commission why the crisis occurred .
in a nutshell : there were programmes being run for which there were insufficient staff resources available .
our position was made very clear on this topic in the 2000 budget .
can i first thank mr van hulten for this report .
it is an excellent report .
can i invite mr elles not to put the cart before the horse .
i should like to thank commissioner kinnock for all his efforts so far .
he has been clear that his commitment has been to produce a radical change .
central to this is the attempt to produce and engender responsibility .
it is clear that we need to see a change in the financial regulation .
that is important .
we need to stop people passing the buck from one to another .
where failure is occurring within the commission we need to hold people responsible .
we need to be assured that consistent under-performance must lead to dismissal .
i will give you one example of this .
it is clear that is not acceptable .
what happened to the person who was responsible for that miscalculation ?
we recognise that most of the officials within the commission are extremely hard-working .
but we also recognise that some of the practices are outdated .
we also need to recognise that people who live in glasshouses should not throw stones .
we have a long way to go before we are perfect ourselves .
our own staff policy is outdated .
some of our working practices need radical reform .
we recognise the proposals on activity-based budgeting .
finally , can i say that the commission needs to work on its relationships with the public .
european taxpayers need to be re-assured .
that is the key issue , delivery of these proposals .
we have submitted an amendment to this effect .
the commission 's records leave a great deal to be desired .
i would also like to say a few words about ex post financial control .
this has also been partly dealt with in the van hulten report .
the general impression at present is that anything budget-related within europe is bad .
it is his first report here in plenary .
it is a report which came about with difficulty and may well be too late .
let us be honest .
the second report of the wise men arrived in september .
we are now four months down the line .
in any event , i look forward to the document which was approved by the commission today .
i also look forward to the white paper which will be available in february .
i would like to end on the following point .
mr president , this report is positive but , actually , we need more than this .
fraud , mismanagement and nepotism do not come from nowhere .
they are most likely to occur if there is little democratic control on cash flow .
via the structural funds , a great deal of the european budget is being pumped around the system .
even the strictest control can not solve this problem .
there is enormous pressure of expectation following the events that led to the resignation of the previous commission .
allow me to start with the most important demand .
we do not want financial control to be abolished .
i would in any case like to congratulate him on his report .
this is the best support we can give to european democracy .
mr president , first of all , congratulations to michiel van hulten for his first report .
mr van hulten , i think you deserve a medal for your efforts .
firstly , there is the commissioners ' individual responsibility .
this must be regulated during the igc .
this will contribute hugely towards re-establishing the confidence of the european citizens in this institution .
this parliament has often heard the desire to reform the commission expressed , even by its presidents .
it now appears that this desire is more serious .
this parliament anxiously awaits this complete reform programme .
commissioners should not be considered senior officials but rather politicians in office .
perhaps the reference to the posts is imprecise .
mr president , the santer commission came to grief because financial control failed all down the line .
naturally , this is only to be welcomed .
and so it is the " two key " principle that applies here .
a single key is to suffice in future .
what we really need to focus on , however , is making the checks more effective .
it is precisely those who feel the need to control everything that end up controlling nothing at all .
however , the financial controllers must work independently .
therefore , independence is prerequisite for effective checks .
that is the position which a clear majority of the committee on budgetary control subscribes to .
i believe we should set the seal on this point at tomorrow 's vote .
this was stupid of the old commission , and parliament was of no help on that occasion .
there are too many rights , too many regulations and too little room for leadership .
there is no backbone , and no teeth .
where is the beef ?
romano prodi promised a revolution .
sort out the tangle of staff allowances .
ensure too , that training becomes a management tool .
do not listen to the report 's demands that temporary staff should have their employment confirmed .
so i refer to the things i do not agree with .
i do not agree with the paragraphs in relation to parliament .
this report is about the commission .
parliament is a separate subject .
there is no need for us to bring parliament into the discussion on the commission .
in addition to that , there is the question of duty-free .
it is not worthy of being brought into this report either .
most of the report is about financial control .
that is reasonable because it comes from the budgetary control committee .
after all , it is only 1 % of gdp , by comparison with national spending .
we should get it into perspective .
it is important to remember that .
the business of the european commission is very little about spending money .
they have very little of it .
they have a much wider responsibility .
i am not one of the people who agrees that there is a vast lack of trust .
if there is , we have generated it in this house in the past year .
that is a gross exaggeration of what the difficulties were .
perhaps this is a little worrying .
as mr blak said , we must instead establish a system with clear roles .
first of all , we need tough regulations , which can be implemented .
codes of conduct and ethical committees are not enough .
these are what are missing .
the van hulten report is a step in the right direction , but it is not enough .
secondly , we must also clarify our own auditing roles .
it is the european parliament which is to carry out the political evaluation .
we do not hunt down criminals. that is olaf 's job .
tell me what national parliament , for example , is handed all preliminary investigation documents .
mr president , i would like to extend a warm thank you to the rapporteur for his report .
otherwise i probably would have felt slightly guilty about this .
i would like to say that this report represents a huge improvement , also with its amendments .
a very important proposal indeed .
i can not fully grasp the underlying rationale .
in my opinion , such a far-reaching scorched earth policy is really unnecessary .
finally , the issue of officials .
actually , i do not entirely share mr haarder 's view .
i do agree that the section on officials has , in fact , been completed totally inadequately .
first of all , the importance of a public service in general is not at all emphasised .
meanwhile , we have to offer the commission a vote of confidence .
'long-winded ' .
i am not going to mention the length of this report .
it is also 'confusing ' .
the concept of transparency stands out in the report .
securing this is a major priority .
the importance of smooth-running , comprehensible work can not possibly be emphasised enough .
we must win back their faith in eu politics .
so if she has any lectures to offer they are best contained within this house .
i thank him and i wish him a long and distinguished career as a representative .
naturally i will not take up any more of the time of the house than is absolutely necessary .
i am sure that mr pomes ruiz is encouraged by that .
i would say to mr elles that we are most definitely in listening mode .
hence the transmission .
turning to the main themes of the resolution i offer the following observations .
that most certainly is the intention of the commission .
financial management and control is obviously a crucial area of reform .
several members have made that point again in the course of today 's debate .
parliamentary support in pursuing that essential course for change will be absolutely vital .
change in the law is fundamental .
that service will open on 1 may this year .
this audit progress board will ensure effective and rigorous follow-up to internal audits .
i want to emphasise strongly that changing our control systems will definitely not mean relaxing them .
that committee was very clear about the need to abolish the centralised ex ante visa .
it was clear too on the need to separate internal audit from financial control .
i do not believe that there is any real disagreement between us on this .
the possibility of using specified external channels will also be addressed .
we are seeking to implement best practice .
as a corollary , there will be safeguards for officials who are the subject of false allegations .
a communication later this year will give full details .
i do not think parliament will be disappointed by what we will propose .
a communication in june will set out the full proposal for change .
standards in public life is the next main section of the report before the house .
i welcome parliament 's support for that .
the draft resolution rightly recalls the commission 's accountability to this parliament .
we are now waiting for parliament to decide when it wishes to begin negotiations on the text .
we are very happy to proceed as rapidly as possible .
the report rightly emphasises the central importance that human resources policy must have in reform .
it certainly blocks the advance and mobility of people with proven capabilities .
a series of communications will therefore follow in the coming months .
each of them will be available for reflection and response by this house .
the early thoughts of parliament on this consultative idea would be especially welcome .
that is most certainly relevant .
parliament has frequently made that point .
thirdly , it is very clear that increased preparations for enlargement must be undertaken .
they are already having implications for resource availability .
the commission therefore welcomes paragraph 15 of mr van hulten 's report .
the debate is closed .
the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m .
( the sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m. )
middle east peace process ( continuation )
such is life .
so i hope i can count on the understanding of the house on this occasion .
it is not something , i assure you , which i would wish to make a practice of .
at the same time we must not lose sight of the palestinian track .
the situation of the palestinians has always been the core issue of the conflict .
israelis and palestinians have made substantial progress in implementing the sharm el-sheikh memorandum .
we are charged with particular responsibility for the promotion of regional economic development .
nor is our role confined to that of banker .
the commission is already considering the implications for the european union of the recent encouraging developments .
we intend to share our more detailed thoughts on the matter with parliament and council soon .
we are the largest of all donors to the palestinians .
we have also offered very substantial support to jordan , lebanon , syria and egypt .
with the israelis we have established closer cooperation in a number of areas of particular interest to them .
european union member states together contributed another eur 860 million during that crucial period .
president arafat will be meeting the council of ministers next week .
the commission is actively involved in those efforts .
we committed more than eur 20 million for such projects last year .
i want to underline that point .
i hope i can add that we will want to provide that .
we have made progress in recent months and weeks , as mr gama mentioned earlier .
but it is inevitably going to be a tough process with difficulties and disappointments on the way .
i hope the house will understand that .
mr president , commissioner patten has our understanding .
in this sense , i share commissioner patten 's positive attitude .
mr president , i want to thank commissioner patten for his detailed account .
i should like to say that i agree with the tone which galeote quecedo 's speech set here .
we in parliament strongly support the middle east peace process .
it is , of course , a peace process which is finally under way .
i want to emphasise four points .
the second point relates to syria .
there , the border question is obviously central .
how negotiations are proceeding there , we still do not know .
what is important , however , is that they have begun .
an important question in this context is the future distribution of water .
my last point concerns the future palestinian state .
this may be proclaimed in the course of this year , with or without israel 's support .
this is something to which we all want to contribute .
the recent negotiations are already an important step towards a permanent peace in the middle east .
it is , therefore , regrettable that these peace talks have been suspended for the time being .
indeed , both parties will need to make huge efforts .
it is also necessary to initiate permanent diplomatic relations and to establish constant dialogue .
the moment of truth is approaching .
will israel let palestinian refugees return or be given compensation ?
will israel share jerusalem and the water of the river jordan ?
peace in the middle east concerns us all , however .
it is therefore good that the eu should act as a godparent to the palestinian state .
but today , egypt , jordan and palestine have peace treaties with israel .
it is high time there was peace in the middle east .
however , israel is not the only country concerned with security .
all the international community has to do is implement resolutions 332 , 248 , 245 and 194 .
currently , both sides seem to have accepted that nothing will be agreed until everything is agreed .
indeed , the time has come to resolve a central problem for global stability .
what can the european union do in these circumstances ?
unfortunately , very little .
but we have enough agreements now : oslo , wye plantation , sharm el-sheikh .
we have enough agreements ; they just need to be implemented .
my second point concerns the resumption of negotiations between syria and israel .
i consider this to be very encouraging news .
that would be a similar situation .
my third and last point concerns the role of the european union .
dare we hope for a dual peace agreement between israel and its neighbours to the north ?
we really hope and believe so .
never have the parties been so determined .
the same is true with regard to immigration policy .
fulfil your obligations to parliament in a generous spirit , thus preparing for the future .
( applause )
this collection is , at present , available in six languages and the remaining translations are nearing completion .
the financial envelope envisaged for 2000 is eur 3 million .
of 62 projects in all , seven included applicant countries .
mrs terr ó n i cus í also mentioned an interinstitutional agreement .
( sustained applause )
agreement on burden sharing must therefore be at the top of the agenda .
we welcome the fact that europol has finally been able to start work .
thirdly : the extension to parliament 's rights in this context .
mr president , i have nothing further to say to the council .
the previous speaker has quoted me from the last committee meeting and said it all !
i find this question more and more worrying .
allow me to try and elucidate it a little from my point of view .
then there is the european parliament , which is also complicated .
it has not quite taken off in the european parliament and the council meets behind closed doors .
this is why i frequently get so worked up , but not over the council of ministers .
however , i should like to make an appeal to the council apparatchiks .
i should just like to mention another aspect briefly because i do not have much time .
scoreboard sounds like skateboard in german .
this vitorino plan is what we need : clear , precise projects with a clear , defined timetable .
i just want to highlight three areas among many where we need quick progress .
the first is asylum .
decisions on asylum should take months - not years .
whatever the eurosceptics say , it is in all our interests to get cooperation in such matters .
i hope that it works out .
numerous questions are still outstanding. answers are still awaited .
the europol agreement has now officially entered into force .
in tampere , the question of granting operational powers was discussed .
we continue to demand a review of the agreement in order to incorporate better parliamentary and judicial control .
the agreement also attracts criticism with regard to eurodac .
parliament has amended the contractual text .
care must be taken to ensure that the council complies with parliament 's modus operandi .
and yet we owe this to the citizens of europe .
i believe that the portuguese presidency can contribute positively to this .
this is the sine qua non condition for reconciling the popular and political spheres .
all asylum-seekers must be entitled to a fair hearing and an appeal with suspensory effect .
they were treated like the worst criminals .
the portuguese presidency must put an end to this type of barbaric behaviour .
what direction do you intend to give to article 13 of the ec treaty ?
immigration is too often a synonym for insecurity and violence and purely repressive responses .
the level of racism in our society is terrifying .
racism in ireland is endemic .
and who is not in favour of security , freedom and justice ?
the agenda is not designed to secure justice for the citizen .
that is already secured by means of the various national legal systems .
first of all , the initiatives which have been planned are completely unrealistic .
it also , of course , finds indirect expression in the question .
as long as the eu revolved around the internal market , only the body was being attacked .
now , it is the soul .
mr president , today the people of northern ireland see a strange irony .
let me just look at the figures from the day that the agreement was signed .
in 1998 , we had 55 murders .
mr president , that situation can not continue and needs remedying .
mr president , the treaty of amsterdam has set an important objective for the union .
the euro , employment , even security , are not enough .
they need a 'european soul ' , as a distinguished spanish professor once said .
this trio 's words were like music to our ears as mr ceyhun has said .
as with all music it needs to be a fine tune and properly orchestrated .
many of us of here are very optimistic about the next six months .
and we must make certain that the details are applicable , appropriate and relevant to the different countries .
mr schulz said earlier on that he was not certain about the definition of 'scoreboard ' .
anyone who is english or british or follows cricket knows what a scoreboard is .
i am sure that commissioner vitorino will make certain that is so .
i would like to make three brief points .
the first is that we need a mature dialogue between the council and the european parliament .
let us stop the shadow-boxing .
involve us please in your discussions on both policy and process .
my second point is that we need a properly resourced commission .
the council and parliament must work together to provide the resources that the commission needs .
all good things come in threes , especially in our policy area .
the role of the court of justice is still too limited and communitisation is incomplete .
the unilateral decision by belgium to re-establish border controls is a clear illustration of this .
we know that readmission clauses are included in the cooperation and association agreements .
yet these represent a serious threat to the principle of 'non-refoulement ' [ no turning back ] .
however , the main concern remains .. .
( the president cut the speaker off )
i thank them for their statements to the house .
this is a belgian government measure which flies in the face of the schengen treaty .
i lodged a written complaint on the same subject to commissioner vitorino on 23 december .
i refer to eurodac .
we were of the opinion that eurodac was becoming a reality .
this is a perfect example of the sort of work we do not want to see .
do you intend to press for a common policy for asylum and immigration ?
i have great expectations for the portuguese presidency .
but i want to add a word of caution .
there are also courts in karlsruhe , london , lisbon , dublin and edinburgh .
we must make sure that what we do makes clear sense .
but we must look always to subsidiarity .
( sustained applause )
thank you , minister .
the debate is closed .
mr president , i am grateful for the council 's oral , and also written , reply .
their efficiency has been truly remarkable .
i also hope that the same is done in relation to parliamentary control .
question time ( council )
we will examine questions to the council .
question no 1 by ( h-0780/99 ) :
thank you for your answer .
my second point concerns the safety of these plants .
that is our role and this is the point of my question .
i recognise the relevance of the arguments that mr souladakis has put forward .
this is , of course , a highly sensitive issue .
thank you , mr president and thank you president-in-office of the council .
however , forgive me if i am a little sceptical of the reply you have just given me .
will you write to me before the next plenary with that information ?
i do not consider that the council tried to answer my question .
i should like to have an answer to that question .
mr sj ö stedt , the answer that i gave was the only answer possible .
the matter is still open .
for our part , we are prepared to study any proposals made in this area .
it is a very important question indeed which jonas sj ö stedt and others have asked .
we can now see that there is perhaps some reason for this warning from parliament .
we will then see , at ministerial level , how we can follow this up .
as far as we are concerned , they will be .
we shall try to achieve a consensus on this matter .
question no 5 by ( h-0785/99 ) :
i understand that portugal is affected by this .
question no 6 by ( h-0788/99 ) :
what other practical measures will it take to put a stop to ethnic cleansing ?
it will not be tolerated , and must stop immediately .
i would like to thank mr president-in-office of the council .
today 's political statement on this issue was very positive indeed , and one which i welcome .
the united nation 's , and mr kouchner 's , mission in kosovo ended in failure .
therefore , the responsibility of the european union has to be seen in a certain context .
i think that we need to consider how we can best present this to the general public .
we have endeavoured to provide material help .
we have tried to defend peace by taking military action .
mr r ü big , as i said , i understand your concerns very well .
there are two fundamental questions in particular .
we in the council will be trying to provide information on this matter during the portuguese presidency .
mr seixas da costa , i totally agree with you .
does the council intend to raise the question of the definitive status of kosovo ?
since the author is not present , question no 7 lapses .
question no 8 by ( h-0796/99 ) :
question no 9 by ( h-0798/99 ) :
i thank the president-in-office for his reply .
the council 's ability to intervene in this matter is strictly limited .
mr president , i too would like to welcome the president-in-office to the chamber .
you said that in lisbon you intend to discuss more dynamic and competitive development .
i do not see how you could , with the views that you hold , provide any answers .
we will try to move these strategies forward as much as possible during our presidency .
question no 12 by ( h-0801/99 ) :
but there are some questions still outstanding .
there does not seem to be any emphasis on the fight against aids in the programme .
i hope that the minister will take some time to pursue that particular issue .
as you can understand , it would be easy to do so .
does the presidency intend to do anything about this ?
since the author is not present , question no 13 lapses .
please allow me to remark on how well-versed and well-informed he is on european affairs .
unfortunately , in my case , he did not provide what i would call a satisfactory answer .
it remains to be seen whether or not there is a consensus on this .
mr president , i join others in wishing portugal every good wish for a successful presidency .
i appreciate that it is a provocative question .
i can not think of a better way to do it .
can you ?
intergovernmental conferences are a kind of event in themselves and could also be a type of christmas tree .
mr dimitrakopoulos has the floor for a procedural motion .
i would ask him to be brief .
mr president , i understand that i have to do this very quickly .
i liked what mr seixas da costa said about father christmas .
in spain they say a letter to the three kings .
that concludes questions to the council .
capital tax
the next item is the joint debate on :
this question has been debated in several national parliaments of the eu .
madam president , i do not have a great deal to add on this subject .
such transactions , according to the argument , bear very little relation to fundamental economic variables .
this has also just been underlined by mr d é sir .
mr d é sir too has mentioned this growing interest on all sides .
in that case , the tax could lead to a net loss of total economic prosperity .
we know what the problem is : instability on the markets as the result of speculation .
i consider this to be the wrong way forward for several reasons .
why do we reject the tobin tax and consider it so questionable ?
secondly , speculative capital is extremely difficult to identify .
we need to clarify the liability for transactions .
i refer to point 9 .
madam president , the debate on a tax on short-term financial actions is not a new one .
we need to know just how desirable and feasible a tax on short-term transactions really is .
it is important that we know who the actors are and what their credit rating is .
we must also ask if there is not a need for fiscal justice .
in itself , globalisation is positive .
the economy has never grown so much nor favoured so many countries on a global level .
as i have said , we are not opposed to such a study .
this argument is therefore not relevant .
i will not go into the basic issue any further for everyone has their arguments .
unemployment and pressure on employees worldwide is increasing .
the commissioner has said that a minimum number of industrialised countries would be needed to achieve this .
this has already been made clear a number times in this debate .
it seems to me blindingly self-evident that some action is necessary .
i am disappointed in the epp .
i thought at least they read the resolutions they were going to vote on .
there is nothing so closed as a closed mind .
this issue can no longer be ignored by parliament , the council or the commission .
i have two or three points to make in this respect .
nor do i believe that this is impracticable .
there must be an overriding economic interest .
we are looking for solutions .
of course capital markets need clarity - that is actually the idea .
the tobin tax will bring some transparency to a very obscure question .
we citizens of the world can not afford the current rate of speculation .
to continue would be economic suicide .
the danger is too great for us to ignore .
we ought to face it regardless of how difficult it may seem .
madam president , mr bolkestein , the ignorance surrounding this debate is unbelievable .
we needed a greek member to finally tell us what this tobin tax means .
you reject it flatly because you do not understand the first thing about it .
we all know that !
they are all tarred with the same dirty brush !
we need a tobin tax to give us a fiscal instrument with which we can intervene .
madam president , i too have found parts of the debate quite bizarre .
we have asset inflation of global proportions .
and it is precisely the medium-sized undertakings and large numbers of employees who suffer as a result .
we can take action against this ; it is possible .
that too is feasible .
and then perhaps everyone will stop bandying about arguments which are asking for trouble !
the tax would be targeted at the right place : at the speculators .
who is going to defend these speculators , when nurses and teachers are paying top rates of tax ?
article 73 c of the treaty establishing the european union provides scope for taxation on transactions .
the low rate tobin tax would not cause tax-recycling problems .
in the end tax would politicise the global , undemocratic system of financial power .
i think that he is correct in this regard .
this indicates how difficult these dossiers are .
i think that this will be problematic .
is it the case that there is low inflation and that there are low interest rates ?
that is not always the case .
madam president , i should like to leave it here .
i thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate .
could you please draw his attention to the fact that i have something to say to him ?
monsieur bolkestein , je veux vous dire quelque chose !
we want to examine the possibility of introducing a tobin tax .
it is not your job , it is our job to decide on that .
it also has something to do with the newly awoken self-consciousness of this parliament .
i just want to discuss it with you , no more and no less .
we can do so without going off at other tangents .
i respect you as a serious commissioner who wants to take his work seriously .
adoption of the minutes of the previous sitting
someone planted a car bomb and one person has died .
on behalf of my group , i once again condemn these terrorist acts .
thank you , mrs fraga est é vez .
we had heard about this regrettable incident .
( the minutes were approved )
resumption of the session
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday , 21 january 2000 .
mrs angelilli , thank you. i have taken note of your comment .
agenda
the next item is the order of business .
is there anyone who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal ?
this debate is topical , exceptionally important and urgent .
we therefore believe that the agenda should be amended to include it .
( applause )
is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal ?
if you ratify .. .
mr gollnisch , excuse me , you have one minute .
i know that you always take particular care to ensure that the rules of procedure are observed .
madam president , i thought i had three minutes .
do forgive me .
we have heard one speaker in favour and one against .
i shall now , therefore , put this proposal for an amendment to the agenda to the vote .
( parliament gave its assent )
this debate is therefore added at the top of the order of business .
topical and urgent debate
talks in austria on forming a government
i shall immediately give the floor to mr seixas da costa , president-in-office of the council .
let it be noted that we are completely united on all three counts .
a government must have more nerve and more courage .
that is what i am asking president prodi for at this moment .
( applause )
secondly , madam president , we wish to send a very clear message to the austrian people .
finally , we must not demonize any experience or initiative , whether negative or positive .
do we want to make it happen ?
furthermore , i learned this morning that the meeting had been cancelled at the last moment .
we have heard a number of stories of failed coordination which has hampered the effectiveness of that aid .
and all this may seriously delay implementation of the tacis programme for 1996 .
subject : specific support and advice for human resources projects for women in disadvantaged regions
- question 30 ( fayot ) : the european parliament 's right of initiative
the eu must allocate more resources particularly for the naval services in those countries in the short-term .
firstly , we have a legal framework .
over recent years the devastation caused has been immense , particularly in venezuela .
i think that this is not sufficient reason to lose hope and weaken our efforts .
the first is minimum social standards .
this logic , and this mechanism , are socially criminal and economically damaging to the union .
is there any threat to the date of 1 january ?
we need to build and push on forwards on the basis of these initial developments .
he or she ' may ' , mrs green , but it is not obligatory .
it is what you would expect , and is hardly surprising .
i note your observation .
the european union has increased its aid considerably .
the eu must show understanding of the situation .
it should have read : ' save the radioactive dinosaurs from extinction ' .
on the other hand , monetary policy can not bring down long term interest rates .
what is regrettable is the absence of any prospects of opening up the council of ministers .
economic relations are also political relations .
well , four months have gone by and i have received no reply whatsoever .
it sends us a constant stream of documents about the information society .
over the next decade it is going to decline .
of course , it is said that no real decentralization has occurred , only a deconcentration .
it is a practical proposal that is being obstructed by brussels .
the enlargement process must lead to the export of security and not the import of insecurity !
our answer to both questions is no ' .
food is not such a simple matter .
nevertheless , i should like to take the opportunity to finish my sentence .
some member states have introduced additional measures on a national basis .
in particular the preparation for citizens and companies is essential .
we must deepen our existing contractual relations .
- ( fr ) we are regularly called upon to give our views on judicial and police matters .
we will do that in the latter part of the year .
time and time again in holy scripture we are warned against what is called genetic confusion .
the second is clearly the climatic consequences of energy .
there are many factors which determine the location of a business .
that principle has been rightly secured by this judgment .
- aelvoet recommendation ( a 4 - 0165/98 )
i am thinking of the life programme for example .
i am only referring to your own data .
this is a much fairer option .
you all have a stake in some government somewhere , on which we are not getting a return .
i believe that these twin developments are worrying and that we can not accept reforms on the cheap .
it is surely unacceptable that roads , for instance , should be built with contaminated materials .
i have been listening very carefully to this debate .
the people who lose out are public sector employees in the respective countries .
so now and then we should also try to do so through political decisions .
all reports have their good points , and this one is no exception .
i have apologised to you , commissioner , because i can not stay .
politics is the art of reality , not of utopia .
we can not expect to see perfect results immediately .
i think something needs to change there .
in a few weeks , the amsterdam treaty will enter into force .
with this in mind , i ask you to vote in favour of this report .
we are pleased to find that all these points are referred to in the draft resolution .
i hope that the new parliament and the new commission will make use of them .
i also have a question about the distribution of competences .
sixthly : hygiene .
i have always had confidence in this .
i believe we should achieve this in time .
therefore , once again , we want to roundly condemn the taliban regime .
the tampere summit was about combating crime .
thank you for your statement , commissioner .
i have already appeared before the french senate .
are we talking about the nature of the works required to provide water services ?
mr president , human rights are universal , indivisible , interrelated and interwoven .
i think that setting dates is very important to our also in actual fact attaining the objectives .
10 . considerably limits the present derogations for cement kilns .
the union is , and should remain , a union of states .
i think we should give mr laschets report our full backing and vote unanimously in favour of it .
not that this was ever disputed for the european central bank .
no statistical data exists .
mr president , smoking is bad for the health .
clearly there is pressure on our agenda today .
it was a pity that the lisbon conclusions did not call for a timetable .
at present , there is room for considerable improvement with regard to both of these aspects .
it is just that i am trying not to indulge in demagoguery .
just a few more words about export issues .
so today i will just be bringing you up to date on the main issues under discussion .
i think i can say that we met these conditions .
in a modern democracy , a strong state must be balanced by a strong civil society .
how much offal has accumulated for destruction and how is it being stored ?
i applaud the rapporteur for introducing a time limit for the council decision .
i understand mr von boetticher 's problem and even agree with his comment about the difficulties .
let me now turn to the question raised about proposals for implementing measures .
the decision was made to move gradually to the coverage of all serious crime .
if not , when will it be in operation ?
i believe we must show respect for the decision taken in the irish referendum .
this was true prior to 11 september .
i would therefore like to thank the commission , which i see is still represented here .
that must be the basic principle .
you have not said what you think about more europe .
there are many other conditions we could perhaps apply .
anyone at all can come and say whatever they like .
so i am looking for major and clear assurances of intent in that area .
i have to say that i have received no representations from allergy sufferers on this point .
we have received encouraging signals from the field .
the commission proposal is barking up the wrong tree here .
in my answer , i gave an example of events in actual fact taking the opposite course .
there are no figures for countries like portugal , ireland and greece , which want a derogation .
there is even less information available regarding employers organisations .
or is the focus in respect of these inherently sound intentions on the social directives ?
however , employment legislation and the world have moved on since 1911 .
one issue that separates us is the civil war in chechnya .
i therefore appeal to you to decisively reject amendment no 147 .
these lorries sometimes hog the carriageway for several kilometres and cause many accidents and traffic-jams .
it was an animated , very convivial game .
i wish you every success .
